---
title: Hollow Horizons
pubDate: 1984-01-24
categories: ['Articles']
description: 'An industrialist titan with Parsi Zoroastrian roots ideates an ingenious automobile affordable for his average countryman, costing ₹1,00,000, or just above $1,000. The industrialist’s vision is inherently Hegelian, for the assembly of his automobile, essentially an elevator of socioeconomic standards for his people, necessitates degenerating nature.'
slug: hollow-horizons
---

“After you have exhausted what there is in business, politics, conviviality, love, and so on — have found that none of these finally satisfy, or permanently wear — what remains? Nature remains,” reads The Marginalian’s tweet, quoting the American poet Walt Whitman. Whitman, revisiting the rousing of his rejuvenation while writing to a dear friend a decade after his paralytic ordeal reveals nature, as Popova recounts, as his pivotal private nurse — but for how long will Whitman's quote hold? Or for how long nature can retain its ontological category?

Sally Rooney echoes Whitman’s reverence for nature en passant in The Irish Times, arguing it’s high time we spring to action, for the materialists stand singleminded in molesting mother nature for material gains, and the maimed mother can only bear so many more blows. It’s capitalism catalyzing nature’s desolation, Rooney maintains, citing several sources, statistics, and her own convictions, highlighting how insatiable greed, by both consumers and creators, keeps the capitalistic cog running, and that the cog will come to a halt only when there is no nature left to milk. Rooney realizes that the zeitgeist is somewhat self-aware, conscious of its careless consumption-centric conventions, but she worries if this Jungian individualization alone is enough to counter the colossal calamity caused by the sanctimonious capitalist degenerates. So the sole solution the 33-year-old screenwriter sees, sharing the Arendtian sentiment, is ardent activism.

Pilgrims board the return train home with a renewed sense of purpose and security induced by days of devotion in the birthplace of God. The train takes about 18 hours to reach its destination, but each passing hour is a lifetime for the pilgrims bubbling in high spirits to share their slices of experience with loved ones. Twelve lifetimes pass by, and the train takes a customary pause at a remote station. The pilgrims are living in the moment, singing, chanting, chatting, snacking, for home is on the horizon — home remains on the horizon, forever, as one thing leads to another and panic ensues as the train compartment is set ablaze by a mob, and, nowhere to run, with compartment exits blocked by the mob, the pilgrims, in the shape of men, women, and children, asphyxiate and burn to a crisp. Their renewed sense of purpose and security after days of devotion is deemed worthless as the incompetent God stands in silence. The ashes of devotees inflame the religious community, the amygdala takes over from the frontal cortex, animalistic instinct kicks in, craving for vengeance consumes the mind as the feeling of being wronged, of helplessness, sends shivers down the soul, belief in God gets suspended, and the collective consciousness cries for blood. The collective community of the opposing identity is deemed guilty, and, as human horror knows no bounds, their homes are reduced to debris, children are burnt alive, women are disfigured, raped, have their genitalia mutilated in front of their loved ones. The incompetent God, yet again, as always, stands in silence, as does the state’s nationalist leader.

An industrialist titan with Parsi Zoroastrian roots ideates an ingenious automobile affordable for his average countryman, costing ₹1,00,000, or just above $1,000. The industrialist’s vision is inherently Hegelian, for the assembly of his automobile, essentially an elevator of socioeconomic standards for his people, necessitates degenerating nature. A rural fertile farmland is found fitting to actualize the industrialist’s idea. The pragmatic Marxist state government is informed of the industrialist’s vision, and, quick as a wink, sensing the $15 billion project as a strong source of a domino effect for trade and employment imperative to the impoverished area’s growth, plays the colonial card called the Land Acquisition Act, and seizes ~4 km² of land from the natives, claiming “public purpose.” Some find solace in the offered compensation corresponding to the land value, while others, having lost their livelihood, are antagonized at the government twerking for the industrialist. Soon enough, the situation escalates, essentially extending an invitation to politicians. Some politicians side with the industrialist, sensing the potential socioeconomic upgrade for the place, while others, recognizing the offered compensation’s inadequacy on top of its exclusivity, share the natives’ infuriation. Empowered by the state government, the industrialist starts setting up the automobile factory. Sstanchioned by a progressive pragmatist party, the natives take to the streets to protest. Chaos ensues, indefinite sit-in in front of the factory gate is organized, blood is shed, lives are lost, the movement gains national and international recognition, and finally, after 30 long months, the pragmatic Marxist state government yields and the industrialist turns tail.

The nationalist leader monitoring the drama from the opposite end of the country slides into the industrialist’s DMs with promises of a surrounding attuned to stimulate him. Wooed, the industrialist swipes right and decides to take the relationship forward. Soon enough, their chemistry has a domino effect. The industrialist succeeds in bringing his vision to life, manifesting multitudes of direct and indirect jobs in related and non-related sectors, leading to a surge in socioeconomic standards, and eventually a positive public image of the nationalist leader.

Had the pragmatic Marxist state government handled the situation better, had the progressive pragmatist opposition been a better negotiator, their state would’ve enjoyed the socioeconomic upgrade. But incompetence on their part let loose the golden goose, and the marginalized and vulnerable still pay the price.

Erik ten Hag’s takeover as the Manchester United manager reignites optimism within the team and broader club community alike. The man with a terrific track record owing to his intricate tactical system is now expected to revitalize the Theater of Dreams. Ten Hag tries to replicate his tactical system even when the players at his disposal are neither attuned nor befit the system, and ultimately, obviously, his pursuit falls flat. The club hierarchy finally comes to senses two years later, finding the team back on square one, and the manager is shown the exit. Ten Hag is a case of naive, anti-Hegelian, anti-Platonian idealism, an idealism where ideals take the driving seat rather than pragmatism — and such an approach ends up hurting the most vulnerable more often than not while creating new problems.

“Is there even a point to strive towards a higher ideal? A more perfect democracy?” ponders The Beat Philosopher. Is there? Who knows? Certainly not the insincere idealists, optimists, capitalists, or activists.
