---
title: Echoes of the Evening
pubDate: 1959-03-16
categories: ['Articles']
description: 'Sophie Brooks, Phil Jackson, and Emma Oakley walk onto the stage. Dr. Brooks, associate professor of sociology and communications, dressed as if to pay tribute to Malin Buska at Cannes 2017, sits on the left corner of the white Lawson while Mr. Jackson, the acclaimed writer and the only speaker who seems to have missed the evening’s fashion memo, takes the opposite corner.'
slug: echoes-of-the-evening
---

1
In a turtleneck almost as bright as her smile and a dark pleated skirt to complement it, with nail polish and lipstick in a deeper, her characteristic red shade neatly tying up the look, arms mostly crossed but moving at times to usher the guests, Louise Kelly stands loudly silent on the stage.

All other eyes now share my focus, and Ms. Kelly sets the evening in motion, introducing herself, the guests, and the specifics of the evening. She exits the stage, giving way to the panelists, and takes a seat somewhere behind me.

The event starts 15 minutes late, but it’s timely.

1.1
Sophie Brooks, Phil Jackson, and Emma Oakley walk onto the stage. Dr. Brooks, associate professor of sociology and communications, dressed as if to pay tribute to Malin Buska at Cannes 2017, sits on the left corner of the white Lawson while Mr. Jackson, the acclaimed writer and the only speaker who seems to have missed the evening’s fashion memo, takes the opposite corner. Dr. Oakley, a theologian by training but a writer by trade, an eclectic and versatile one at that, occupies the chair reserved for moderators. Dr. Oakley introduces the topic and her ground rules.

The speakers, showing regard for the rules, have a quickfire exchange, and Dr. Brooks decides to go first.

Dr. Brooks: Politics is inherently about vibes. [Social media] creates an environment in which we recognize vibes a bit more than we used to, but it’s not the case that we invented them suddenly in the 2020s. I think we are much less rational than we imagine ourselves to be. There’s a tendency, we think that we verify facts, there is objective deliberation, and we come to a conclusion, but no – we’re part of political tribes, we are part of identities, and what we see in media research, interestingly, proven through quantitative studies, that these tribal identities trumps other considerations. So, it’s not the case that people are not exposed to facts or contrasting opinions, they are exposed to them but filter them differently, through their preexisting ideologies and identities and tribal connections, and that I think is an inherent component of politics again, not something that we had never had beforehand. But I think it has become more salient through new tech and other changes, fact of which we can understand better if we read Phil’s book.

Mr. Jackson: I think, well, first of all, I think why politics is so interesting is because it covers such a vast range of human behavior and conduct. I mean, it can be extremely high-minded about first principles and philosophical ideas about how society should be run in practice, and it can be as stupid as how somebody looks. And that’s just, you know, the art of it. So, I think, in the actual practice of politics, feelings affect, you know, general dislike of people for reasons that are not rational, or you have to look for reasons deeper than at face value, are always gonna be a part of it. I think rhetoric has always been a part of democratic politics to appeal to public opinion and that’s not pure reason that includes appeals to people’s emotions, but I do believe there’s technology now that makes it easier to make those sorts of appeals where it used to take a lot of labor, and its also easy to see the results, or maybe we think we see the results of those kinds of appeals to emotions, so I think we have more vibe machines? I know that sounds stupid but I think, yeah, feelings and emotionality have always been a part of political appeals.”

Dr. Brooks, who has written two books on sociopolitical theory and is now working on a third, and Mr. Jackson, who has words in the country’s top publications, argue that “political vibes” are only more apparent now due to the zeitgeist’s interconnectedness.

Today, the fashionable thing is insincere identity politics, where seemingly full-grown people behave like kids and attack others based on identity or false taboo labels rather than genuine well-meaning criticism.

Today, the fashionable thing is to paint people in broad strokes with the brush of Communism /Marxism/Socialism. Sanders, Harris, and Gandhi are often painted as such. My problem here is not ideological orientation but nomenclature and categorization. Those people, like any other rational person, favor economic equality, personal liberty, social welfare, and also capitalism — and rightfully so.

In capitalism, we get probably the most effective weapon to fight personal or national economic stagnation and bring people together, even better than religion perhaps. The better one wields that weapon, the more lives one intersects, intertwines, and influences, and the more others directly or indirectly depend, and the more powerful one becomes as a market regulator and economy influencer. And with more power, comes more responsibility, so the more accountable one should be held. That’s just a tradeoff inherent to the capitalistic structure, it seems to me — either don’t go around venturing or dare to influence and be held accountable. A market-oriented economy with enough incentives and opportunities for innovation and entrepreneurship should go hand in hand with economic regulations to protect the less privileged from inequality and exploitation. You must see to it that the less-privileged and more-privileged, given equal effort, have equal playing ground. You want every individual of yours to have enough civic and economic liberties to be able to make the best out of their opportunities for personal, social, or professional growth, and only then do we get a close-to-optimal socioeconomic framework that balances individual, national, and civilizational growth with minimal suffering for people and nature.

It’s not a matter of ideology, that you HAVE to care about other people or nature. It’s just that we are humans, and humanity comes first. It’s the same as gender discourse but from a different pov: much like the right sees birth-rate collapse, the left sees global warming or climate change as risks to humanity. But people from either group who go around attacking other people don’t actually understand or really care about those things. To paraphrase Thomas McKenzie talking to a Nazi Jojo in Jojo Rabbit, they just want to be a part of a club — a club that’s more interested in playing identity politics.

Martin Luther King was “woke” when he dreamt and fought for racial equality. Gandhi was “woke” when he decided enough was enough and drove the British away from India with his protests and call for reforms, resulting in an independent India. Ben Franklin was “woke” with his rallying opposition to the British monarchy under King George III and his role in the American Revolution. Muhammed was “woke” when he criticized polytheism, slavery, female infanticide, and elitism. Jesus was a “woke” Jew who criticized Herod Antipas, Caiaphas, the Pharisees, and the Sadducees. All, rather interestingly, were the far-left of their time. All of them would’ve been branded as “cultural Marxists” or “postmodern neo-Marxists” by their Jordan Peterson, with different versions of identity politics and oppressed-oppressor narrative.

Dr. Brooks and Mr. Jackson are right in saying that we are idiots. At its broadest, there’s only one reason for idiocy: bias. Bias prevents us from using our intellect at its full capacity and intensity. Bias infiltrates our mental system through different mediums, but it propagates predominantly through the virus called religion. Traditionalism, nationalism, ethnocentrism, xenophobia, sexism, and casteism are the other major types of viruses that carry the disease of bias. Identity is one thing, being proud of yours is another, but bias against other identities is counterproductive in an increasingly smaller and more connected world, thanks to technology and capitalism.

Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs needs to have another layer at the bottom called “Identity Construction” or something because creating identities based on some difference feels inherently human to me. Evolution has shaped our brains to almost instinctively, automatically, and subconsciously form some sort of “us vs them” framework — as basic and fundamental as good vs bad, our tribe vs the other tribe, or as complex and absurd as our religion vs their religion, our sect vs theirs, or engineers vs physicists, accelerationists vs degrowthers, pronatalists vs antinatalists, etc. Despite eons of evolution, we’re still monkeys in forests.
