---
title: The Idea of Sally Rooney
pubDate: 1921-01-10
categories: ['Articles']
description: 'The Idea of Sally Rooney'
slug: hometown
---

The sound of Sally Rooney’s supersonic exploits has been echoing near my ears since she burst onto the stage with Conversations With Friends, but I never really bothered to give her any attention. I’ve been more or less familiar with her body of work, its nature and style — I knew of millennials’ soft spot for her and of critics being kind to her, I knew she writes as if she were the love child of Colleen Hoover and Virginia Woolf, and I knew she likes to travel the perennial paths in a Tesla — although, again, I’m yet to read a Rooney novel. Quite frankly, I've been indifferent to her work or even her existence, but it all changed recently.

Rooney often visits me in third places, now that she has Intermezzo to promote. I also overhear people talking about her in those third places, and they speak of her with admiration. Many of those people are well-acquainted with classic literature, some accomplished writers themselves, so naturally, I’m inclined to trust their judgment. And when she visited me with Merve Emre recently on Twitter, I couldn’t help but entertain her.

Above the introduction and below the title Loving the Limitations of the Novel: A Conversation between Sally Rooney and Merve Emre, there’s an image of Rooney standing against the wall wearing a long-sleeved pullover and loose-fitting trousers, hands in her pockets, poised, her scrutinizing eyes staring right into mine. I stare back into hers for a good few seconds. I sense she has that look — the look of maturity beyond one’s age, the look of a rather eccentric intersection of nonchalance and curiosity, the look alluding to a reservoir of rich, complicated stories buried deep inside, the look of having experienced or imagined sorrow in its breadth and depth, the way Taylor Swift’s “tortured poet” would look, the look that belongs to great artists and philosophers.

“People in my neighborhood are intrusive, they often need a twist on the arm. Just yesterday, a man walked up my porch and to my main gate. He must’ve stood there for like five minutes — I saw on the CCTV footage — before ringing the bell. He wanted in under the pretense of presenting a sales pitch, or maybe he really did want to sell something, but I dismissed his requests and sent him away. I’m trying to be perceived as less nice. It’s not Canada, you know,” Erica tells me during one of our stand-ups. Erika has a lot on her plate. She manages her local and international departmentalized teams, finalizes decisions by interior designers and architects, and oversees regional sales and marketing. In between, she picks up her kids from school, studies to get her realtor license, spends time with her family, and sleeps — all while trying to adapt to the new climate and social dynamics of South Florida. Given the nature of our relationship, I suppress my impulse to probe her for the description of the demeanor of her desire. Borrowing all the pixels of her psyche she lets me through our interactions and piecing them all through imagination, however, I do visualize it. I see that Erica’s demeanor of desire is one that betrays her nature, an armor she wants to wear to avert predators or the pernicious gaze. I understand where she’s coming from, but I don’t want to. I want to tell her ballerina that dancing is difficult with the armor on, and it comes at the cost of weighing yourself down. I want to tell her she might not be able to take the armor off at some point for she would become one with it, losing her exuberance and animated expressions forever. “If I were you, I wouldn’t change, because why change for people you don’t like? If you’re nice, people think, people assume you’re naive. But who cares what some schmuck thinks when you know yourself,” I reply. Erika stares at me, her lips play along but her eyes betray her in concealing a half-smile. She asks me about the progress of our project.

“Why don’t you take it off? You must be burning up in this heat,” my mother asks Nargis. She appears to nod but her head changes course midair, moving sideways rather than upwards. She continues scrubbing the floor of our house, wrapped in sweat of labor, and her niqab. Nargis first put on the niqab when she was 7, upon being made aware of her growing body and that not covering herself up from head to toe speaks of her character. Since then, she has never left the house with her character open to interpretation — to the men in her neighborhood or her God. Now 37, she is a domestic help at my home and a few others in my community, earning just about enough to hold onto her world desperately as it seeps and droops and shows signs of falling apart. Her dainty hands bear scars from her jobless, drunkard husband instead of the colorful bangles they deserve, her face with wrinkles and dark circles of toil that send her four kids to school lie about her real age, but she doesn’t care. Nargis wants to keep her niqab on, not wanting to invite any more trouble, but perhaps she also wants to live in a world where she needn’t wear it to avoid judgment from men or her God.

Rooney has the demeanor Erika desires, that Nargis’ niqab actualizes by proxy. It’s not a persona programmed in haste for a desired output, unlike Erika’s desire or Nargis’ niqab, but a property intrinsic to her personality — a property slowly and organically absorbed into her identity as she built a nuanced awareness of the world and the complexities of the lives in it, its rules, its systems, the strengths of that system and the holes in them. Rooney’s demeanor is a by-product of her education, awareness, and critical thinking.

I speak of the 33-year-old writer as if I’ve known her personally for years, and I’m almost apologetic upon realization. But I want to have known her personally for years, and an amok imagination is my only recourse. Wait — what if my imagination is deceitful? What if it assigned her those qualities and an origin story it admires? What if her facade is also carefully contrived? What if it’s a manifestation also born out of necessity? Oh God.

But that’s what good marketing is. Good marketing is tempting, overpowering, it draws the target audience in because “this is a very complicated and noisy world. We’re not going to get a chance to get people to remember much about us. So we have to be really clear on what we want them to know about us,” as Steve Jobs said. Good marketing *actually* makes the book/author more valuable in the eyes of the reader, as visakan veerasamy says. Rooney’s deep impression, a product of reviews from people I trust, her interview, and my imagination, is inviting. I never wanted to read her before, but she talks to me now, and I listen.

Rooney talks about how she approaches writing novels, how the form evolved over time and why it did the way it did, she talks about why she writes novels, how sometimes “it’s October for her characters, but actually May,” and, among other things, the books that influenced her. Even if you don’t like Rooney or writing, if you’re even vaguely interested in psychology or philosophy, I suggest you read the interview published in The Paris Review.
